# Introduction to Third-Party Package Management in Python

## Introduction to PIP and the Python Package Index (PyPI)

- Python Package Index (PyPI) is the official third-party software repository for Python.
    - Thousands of modules.
    - Offers a mechanism to share modules.
    - Maintained by the Python community.

- Module is a file containing Python code. Packages are a collection of modules.

- Package in PyPI refers to a distribution package. It could include modules, data files, and other resources.

- PyPI consists of two parts: 
    1) the repository itself
    2) the tools to interact with it.
- Look at Pypi.org for more packages and use PIP to install them. If packages include modules, they can be imported.

- Package types pertain to text-based template engine, web application servers, natural language processing libraries, video game engines, and more.

- PIP is Package Installer for Python.
- Code in packages is considered untrusted code.

### Takeaways:
1. The Python Package Index (PPI) is a repository of community-created Python packages.
2. Each of the packages listed falls under a license: licenses specify how developers can use the package.
3. PIP is a tool used to install, update, and remove packages.
4. The code on the Package Index is considered untrusted code b/c it's should be considered not fully viewed and could contain buggy or malicious code.

---

## Considerations for Package Versions

- The third-party packages should exist on the operating systems file system. Usually located at python/lib/python3.9/site-packages.
- Import syntax: used to import packages and/or modules into our code.
- The site-packages directory location will depend on what OS your're using and how Python was installed.

- Could be multiple versions of the same package installed on the system. Could be a problem if the code is not compatible with the version of the package.
- Could end of up with multiple applications using different versions of the same package.
- PIP provides a mechanism for installing specific versions of packages. PIP can also determine which versions are allowed to be installed during updates.

- VENV module provides support for creating lightweight, 'virtual environments' with their own site directories, optionally isolated from system site directories.

### Key takeaways:
    1. Site-packages is the name of the directory where third-party packages are installed.
    2. PIP helps mitigate the effects of third-party code changes: enables installation of a specific version of a package and determines which versions are allowed to be installed during an update.
    3. The VENV module is used to create isolated Python environments.

---

## Considerations for Package Selections

- The Python package index contains thousands of packages used to solve a wide range of problems. Some are quite popular being used by developers every day and some are unused.

- Few considerations developers need to make before installing packages:
    
    - Licensing: does the package's license allow you to use the code as needed?
        - Review license type - some code allow you to use however you need. Other types are restrictive. 
    
    - Documentation: does the package contain useful documentation?
        - Projects with good documentation become more widely adopted. Good documentation can save hours of reading other peoples code. It helps to explain the purpose of the project and how to use it.
    
    - Effort savings: does the introduction fo this package save enough effort to justify its use?
        - Effort of installing can save hundreds of hours of time. Knowing when to use a package and when to solve for yourself is an intuition you will gain over time. Try to consider code maintainability if you decide to use a package or not. 
        - When to determine to use own code versus a package:
            - Third-party dependencies introduce overhead. This overhead is in the form of learning and understanding the code in the package as well as keeping the package up to date with the latest version. 
            - For the overhead to be worthwhile, the package needs to offset this overhead.If a package saves enough development effort, then long-term maintenance might be worth the tradeoff. 
            - For very small projects, the standard library is enough. 
            - Consider how much value you gain by using a third-party package. 
    
    - Quality: does the package contain tests that validate the code? Is the code close enough to be considered idiomatic?
        - If relying on code maintained by others, you want some mechanism for quality. Code quality relates to the likelihood of successfully achieving its purpose with as few mistakes as possible. 
        - Automated tests can be run to ensure code does what is expected. After changes are made to the code, the tests can be run to verify that changes haven't broken anything. 
        - When evaluating a package, it's worth investigating how the package is tested, if at all. Knowing what is being tested and how, will help you to understand the odds of changes introducing problems.
            - Good tests help ensure that previously fixed bugs aren't reintroduced. 
            - They ensure that objects behave as expected. 
        - Favor idiomatic code - written according to current community standards.
    
    - Security: does the package take reasonable considerations to maintain security?
        - Probability that certain packages will result in security incidents.
        - Potential severity of incidents.
        - Use best judgement and review existing security standards.
        - Basic considerations for a baseline when reviewing security of packages:
            - Does the package take reasonable considerations to maintain security?
            - Does the package have a large enough community of developers to resolve any security bugs?
            - Do I trust this code enough to run it on my own operating system?

### Takeaways:
1. Licensing - ensure that you can adhere to a package's license.
2. Documentation - favor projects with documentation if all other considerations are equal.
3. Effort savings - ensure that the overhead of learning and maintaining third-party packages is worth the effort.
4. Quality - find ways to ensure that a package meets your required quality standards. 
5. Security - find ways to ensure a package is trustworthy.

---

## Demonstration of PIP

- Primary tools for downloading and installing packages is the Package Installer for Python (PIP).
- PIP is a module included with many popular versions of Python.
- python3 -m pip --help
    - -m flag is installing code with PIP module.

- Common list commands:
    - python3 -m pip list: used to display the third-party packages currently installed.
    - python3 -m pip install rich: install the package rich, use PyPi website to find package install command.
    - python3 -m pip uninstall rich: uninstall the package rich.
    - python3 -m pip install "rich==12.4.4": use requirements specifiers to install specific versions of a package. If you don't specify a package, the latest will be installed.
    - Use specific symbols for package operations:
        - "==", matching operator for and exact match.
        - "!=", exclusion operator to exclude a version.
        - "<>", exclusion order operator to include persons or greater or lesser versions.
        - "<= >=, inclusive order operator to include versions of greater or equal or lesser or equal value.
        - "~=", compatible version operator used as a shorthand syntax that compresses multiple version specifiers.
        - "===", arbitrary matching operator used to match exact strings. Also provides mechanism for matching the text of the version for packages that don't follow the expected version structure.

### Takeaways:
1. PIP is a Python module included with modern versions of Python, used to manage third-party packages.
2. PIP can be run on the command line using the module syntax or possible using the PIP proxy script.
3. PIP allows specific package versions to be selected using version specifiers.
4. Version specifiers have their own syntax to define which versions of a package are acceptable.

---

## Managing Package Versions

- PIP's package version specifiers allows us to install specific versions of a package. However, managing packages from a command line is not very scalable. Since packages include other packages as dependencies, it quickly becomes difficult to do this manually. 

- PIP install command provides mechanism that can read the list of package version specifiers from a file and install the required versions. This allows us to control which packages and versions to install using a file.

- Install packages in the requirements.txt file.

```
python3 -m pip install -r ../requirements.txt
```

- PIPs freeze command generates a list of all package version specifiers for all currently installed third-party packages and their dependencies. Using PIP freeze is a common strategy from preventing external code changes. Rather manually editing the requirements.txt file, you will use PIP to install or upgrade third-party packages.

```
python3 -m pip freeze
```

- Use PIP freeze to produce a list of package version specifiers.

```
python3 -m pip freeze > requirements.txt
```

### Takeaways:
1. The purpose of the requirements file is to serve as a method for managing the versions of dependent packages.
2. The purpose of the pip freeze command is to produce a list of package version specifiers for all installed third-party packages.

---

## Managing Packages for Multiple Projects

- The Python runtime expects third-party packages to be installed in the site-packages directory. Due to the distribution package structure, we can only use one version of a package at a time. This means, if we have two applications with conflicting requirements, we can run into a problem. 

- VENV - virtual environment module to create an isolated environment. It is common to build application venv that it is built into the standard library.

```
python3 -m venv env_one
```

### Takeaways:
1. The purpose of the site-packages directory is to store third-party packages for the Python runtime to use.
2. The purpose of VENV is to create and manage isolated Python environments.
3. VENV creates a new directory containing the files required by the Python runtime.
4. This includes the site-packages directory.
5. Virtual environments provide scripts to activate and deactivate the environments.
6. This makes it possible to run Python without needing to specify the full path of the Python binary.

---

### Quiz
1. Which tool is used for installing packages from the Python Package Index? pip
2. When considering the use of a third-party package in Python, what is one of the primary factors to evaluate? The licensing of the package.
3. What is one of the key benefits of using virtual environments in Python development? They allow for the use of multiple versions of the same package across different applications.
4. What is the primary purpose of the site-packages directory in Python? To store third-party Python packages and modules.
5. What is the primary purpose of the requirements.txt file in a Python project? To manage the versions of dependent packages.