# Introduction to Built-Ins in Python

- When the Python runtime starts up, it bootstraps some basically functionality for use. That includes object types such as str, int, float, booleans, and it also includes a small collection of functions.

- Functions based on purpose:
    - Functions designed to interact with a sequence - a function that has multiple sequential values (sum, min, max)
    - Functions named after built-in object types - used to convert objects from one type into another for which the function is named or to create a new object of the given type. Used to convert data from one type to another (e.g. str to int).
    Functions used for data encoding - category revolves around [unicode](https://home.unicode.org/). Unicode is a giant lookup table where numbers are placeholders for specific characters. 
    - Functions related to objects - these are able to inspect and interact with objects (e.g., callable(), hasattr()).
    - Functions used for name bindings - these are used to inspect which names the runtime has bound (e.g., dir()).
    - Functions used for input and output - console based objects (e.g., print(), input()). Called like any other callable, use functions name with parens including any arguments (e.g., input(argument)).

- [Python documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html) of built-in functions.

- Print function used for displaying text in the console.
```
print("Hello, World!")  # Output: Hello, World!
```

- Input function used for taking user input from the console.
```
user_input = input("Enter your name: ")  # Output: Enter your name: (waits for user input)
print(f"Hello, {user_input}!")  # Output: Hello, <user_input>!
```

## Takeaways:
1. When Python runtime starts, it bootstraps several built-in functions. These functions fall into some basic categories.
    - Object-focused
    - Name-binding focused
    - Encoding-focused
    - etc.
2. Two built-in functions of note are print and input.
    - The print() function used to display text-based output to the console.
    - The input() function is used to get text-based input from the console.

### Quiz:
1. Which built-in function would you use to obtain the character representation of an integer in Unicode? chr()

2. What is the primary purpose of the built-in 'int' function in Python? To convert a string into an integer

3. What does the 'dir' function do in Python when you provide an Object that contains strings as an argument? Returns a list of attributes and methods of an object