# Introduction to Exceptions

- Python documentation:
    - [Base exceptions](https://docs.python.org/3/library/exceptions.html#BaseException)
    - [Exception hierarchy](https://docs.python.org/3/library/exceptions.html#exception-hierarchy)

- Exceptions are events that occur during the execution of a program that disrupt the normal flow of instructions.
- They are typically used to handle errors or other exceptional circumstances that arise during program execution.

- Syntax error occurs when the interpreter encounters code that does not conform to the syntax rules of the language.
- Exceptions are raised when the program is running and can be caught and handled using try-except blocks.
- Exceptions are python objects. They contain useful details that can help when debugging, including line numbers and error messages.

- Try family of keywords: try, except, and finally.
- When using a Try block, it must have an Except or Finally block. It can have multiple Except blocks.

- When creating own code, you can use built-in exceptions or create custom exceptions. 
- Custom exceptions allow you to define the required attributes and methods.
- Custom exception can be created by a new class which inherits from the built-in Exception class.

```
try:
    config = download_config()
except FileNotFoundError:
    config = default_config()
finally:
    # Always run
    print(config)
```

- Takeaways:
1. Exceptions are used to denote that the expected flow of code cannot happen for some reason.
2. There are two types of exceptions: syntax errors and runtime exceptions.
    - Syntax error result in the application stopping.
    - Runtime exceptions can be detected and handled.
3. Exceptions can be handled using try, except, and finally blocks.
4. Raise exceptions using the raise keyword followed by an exception object.

- Lab:
- The "ask for permission" model attempts to identify likely issues such as missing files throughout the code. This model merges necessary operations with defensive code used to prevent possible exceptions. This can add a non-trivial amount of code as applications grow and evolve. It also performs more operations than are strictly required.
- The "ask for forgiveness" model defines the necessary operations to perform a specific task and handles exceptions if they occur. This model focuses on writing code based on the normal code flow and handling resulting exceptions. The Python community commonly ascribes to this model.

- The ellipsis (...) is synonymous with the pass keyword.