# Introduction to Python Language

## Intro to the Python Language
- Purpose of Python language is to create and control objects.
- Objects: 1) means of modeling real-world and abstract concepts; 2) Pythons low level building blocks; 3) object's type is a name of the concept being modeled; and, 4) model concepts by extracting meaningful attributes and methods.
- Python consists of 30+ keywords. Can create custom ones. Also use symbols. 
- Actions: 1) making decisions on certain conditions; 2) performing operations on objects; 3) creating objects; 4) repeating operations; and, 5) creating new object types.
- Consider Python syntax as templates for types, attributes, methods, and symbols.
- Takeaways:
    1. Purpose of Python programming language is to create and control objects.
    2. A languages rules are referred to as syntax.
    3. The purpose of the interpreter is to read each line of code and interpret its meaning and return any results.

## Intro to Code Blocks
- Think of code blocks as paragraph in a written document.
- Use white spaces for ease of reading code.
- Python's standard indentation is to use four spaces for each new level of indentation.
- Takeaways:
    1. The purpose of a code block is to represent multiple consecutive related lines of code.
    2. A code block is defined by using whitespace-based indentation.
    3. Python's standard indentation defines a single level of indentation as four spaces.
    4. The runtime determines the indentation pattern based on the first line of code which begins with whitespace.

## Intro to Text Editors
- Takeaways:
    1. The purpose of a text editor is to edit text without including hidden formatting that the interpreter won't understand.
    2. The purpose of a code editor is to provide an editor that's tailored to work with code.

## Intro to the Python Interpreter
- Variable = name binding.
- Methods - place () around object like dir(object) for directory of methods.
    - call method with variable.method()
    - type(object): will list type of object.

- Takeaways:
    1. Python provides a lot of commonly required types built into the runtime.
    2. Common types such as strings, floats, integers, and booleans are built directly into Python's language syntax.
    3. Binding a name to an object enables us to establish a reference to an object.
    4. Bound names are stand-ins for the object they reference.
    5. The interpreter is the glue between code and objects.
    6. This enables objects to determine how they interact with operators.