# Exploring Dictionaries in Python
- Dictionary objects are containers for storing key-value pairs of objects.
- A key-value pair consists of two related objects, where the key identifies the value.
- Create a dictionary with {}.
- A dictionary's key must be hashable.
- A dictionary's value can be any object in the entire Python runtime.

- Syntax for creating dictionaries:
    1. Uses {} to define the dictionary.
    2. Uses : to separate a key and value.
    3. Uses , to separate pairs.

    Example: dictionary = {'name' : 'Joe', 'age' : 35}

- The syntax for accessing an individual value based on its key uses [] with the key inside the brackets. 
- The syntax for deleting key-value pairs uses the del keyword followed by the name to unbind.
- The way to merge two dictionaries is to use the merge operator.

- Working with key value pairs
    - cat['age'] = 3: add a new key with corresponding value
    - del cat['age']: delete a key value pair from dictionary
    - 'name' in cat: comes out to True or False based on whats in the dictionary
    - cat.get('name'): is alternate form of square bracket syntax
    - cat.update({'age': 4}): is alternate to adding new key value pair to dictionary. 
    - cat.get('favorite_toy', 'laser pointer'): curly bracket will result in runtime error if key doesn't exist where using 'get' method allows for alternate default value.
    - cat.keys(): returns list of all the keys
    - cat.values(): returns list of all the values

- Working with multiple dictionaries
    - configuration = {'enable_sound': False, 'resolution': (1920, 1080)} and user_settings = {'enable_sound': True}
    - configuration |= user_settings to merge dictionaries: update left side dictionary with values from the right side

- Quiz
    1) What is the purpose of the 'keys' method in Python dictionaries? To return a list of all the keys in the dictionary.
    2) What is the purpose of the 'get' method in Python dictionaries? To retrieve a value from a dictionary with a default value if the key doesn't exist.
    3) What is a key-value pair in Python dictionaries? Two related objects where the key identifies the value.
    4)  What is the purpose of the 'del' keyword in Python dictionaries? To delete a key-value pair from a dictionary.
    5) What is the syntax for creating an empty dictionary in Python? {}
    6) What is the purpose of the merge operator in Python dictionaries? To merge two dictionaries, overwriting values from the second dictionary.
    7)  What is the syntax for referencing a value in a dictionary by its key in Python? dictionary_name[key]
    8) What does the 'in' operator do in Python dictionaries? Checks if a key exists in a dictionary.