# Introduction to Python Objects

## Intro to Python Objects
- Python Data Model. In Python runtime, everything is an object.
- Python is designed to make it easy for developers to work with data.
- Python is a C programming application. Uses Python runtime to read code and turn into objects.
- Objects include the attributes and behaviors to define a real-world model.
- Attributes that model behavior are methods. Commonly referred attributes are mostly likely describing data.
- Objects are used to model real-world and abstract concepts.
- Concept being modeled is referred to as an object type. The name of the concept describes what the object can do.

- Takeaways:
    1. Objects are building blocks for modeling real world or abstract concepts.
    2. Python objects are a collection of attributes. Attributes have two flavors, data and methods.
    3. Objects are foundational to Python because everything in Python is an object. Objects are like Lego bricks that can be combined to model more complex concepts.

## Exploring Objects
- Objects are building blocks for modeling real world and abstract concepts.
- Model objects by defining meaningful attributes and behaviors of the concept we're modeling.
- Python objects are a collection of attributes. Attributes have two flavors - data and methods. Objects have methods of doing things.
- Objects are a data modeling strategy that defines data using attributes and behaviors using methods.
- Modeling concepts with objects makes using these more intuitive for developers.

- Name of object concept being modeled is its type.
- Object types can be artifacts (cat), numbers, strings, integer, etc.

- Takeaways:
    1) An objects type defines the concept being modeled by the object.
    2) Python provides many built-in types that we can use as building blocks including str, int, float.
        - Str used for working with sequences of characters, text. Methods include behaviors making text capitalized, upper or lower case, performing find and replace, etc.
        - Int enables to work with whole numbers. 
        - Float enables to work with numbers that include a decimal place.

## How Objects Get Things Done
- Methods are used to model behavior.
- A methods code determine what the code does and how it does it.
- Methods can control the state of an object.
- Methods: where your code is going to live.
- Calling a method will run the method's code.

- Mechanics of a method.
    1) Accept input
    2) Return output
    3) Interact with attributes

- Takeaways:
    1) Objects are a data modeling strategy that defines data using attributes and behaviors using methods.
    2) The concept of object models is referred to as its type.
    3) Python provides a lot of commonly required types built into the runtime.
    4) Attributes consist of names and values.
    5) Methods can accept input, return output, and interact with an object's attributes.
    6) Calling a method is how the code within is run.

## From Model to Code
- Creating a counter.
- Syntax relates to the structure as code. Rules that must be followed.
- The purpose of the counter is to increment a number by one every time an event occurs.
- When modeled in code, our counter object will have an attribute named number and a method named count.

- setup a class to count

```
class Counter:
    def __init__ (self):
        self.number = 0

    def count(self):
        self.number += 1
```

- call the Counter and make it count
```
>>> counter = Counter()
>>> counter.number
0
>>> counter.count()
>>> counter.number
1
```

- Counter - defines new object type called Counter. Use class for specific type of object.
- def __init__ (self): is a special method called a constructor.
- self.number = 0 sets the initial value to 0.
- self.number += 1 calls Counter to increment by 1.

- Takeaways:
    1) In Python, class definitions are used to create new object types.
    2) Class definitions allow us to specify the code to run when an object is created in the constructor method.

- Quiz questions:
    1) In Python, _____ define meaningful data about a concept. attributes 
    2) Which of the following statements defines a new object type named "Dog" in Python? class Dog:
    3) What is the primary value of methods in Python? to provide a means to interact with attributes
    4) Inside the Python runtime, everything is a(n) _____. object
    5) A Python object attribute consists of two parts: _____. a name and value
    6) Fill in the blanks: Python objects are made up of _____ and _____. attributes, methods
    7) Which Python type stores floating-point numbers? float
    8) _____ a Python method will run the method's code. Calling
    9) Python abbreviates the string type to _____. str