# Intro to Flow Control

- Flow in Python includes making decisions and repeating actions.

- Making decisions:
    1) If - opening statement
    2) Elif - true/false for outcome
    3) Else - final default decision

- Repeated actions:
    1) For loop - repeat action an unknown amount of times or explicitly breaking the loop. Used for a constrained collection of objects such as moving through a list.
    2) While loop - have to be careful using these b/c the loop may never stop. Repeat a task when condition is true, stops when false, or use breaks.
    * Can use break keyword to break out of current loop.

- Takeaways:
    1) Flow control determines how data flows through our code.
    2) Decisions can be made using if statements along with if's optional friends elif and else.
    3) Loops enable code to repeat actions, and different looping needs require different types of loops.
    4) While loops repeat until a condition is met or the loop is broken.
    5) For loops repeat for each object in a collection and can be broken if needed.

- Quiz:
    1) Python for loops _____. are used to loop over a constrained collection of objects
    2) Which Python keyword can be used to stop a loop? break
    3) Python code is a set of instructions that the Python _____ is going to follow. interpreter
    4) Python while loops are used to repeat an action _____. an unknown number of times
    5) Which Python keyword stands for else-if? elif
    6) If a loop doesn’t stop, then it becomes a(n) _____ loop. infinite
    7) Which Python keyword can be used after an if statement and allows for multiple related decisions to be checked? elif
    8) Which Python keyword indicates the default decision if none of the previous conditions is true? else
    9) _____ enable code to repeat actions. Loops