# Introduction to If-Elif-Else

- When Python reads an If statement, it expects whatever is between the word If and the colon to be considered True.
- Boolean objects - decision making in code revolves around the idea of something being in one of two states (True/False).
- Booleans are commonly produced as the result of performing operations or from calling code.
- The And and Or operators can be used to compare two different boolean expressions.
- Everything between If keyword and colon must evaluate to True for the code to run.
- The Else statement is intended to be used for defaults that should be set if the other conditions are not True.

- example if, elif, else code

```
command = input("enter command: ")
age = 42

if command in ["cook", "bake", "read"]:
    print("sounds fun")
elif command == "jog" and age > 40:
    print("it's a trap")
elif command == "learn python":
    print("wyat to go!")
else:
    print("I didn't recognize that command")

```

- Takeaways:
    1) The If family of statements begins with the keyword followed by a condition which must evaluate to True for the code block to run.
    2) A boolean object models the concept of something being in one of two possible states.
    3) Python uses keywords True and False to represent the two states.
    4) If statements can be nested, which enables them to make more complex decisions.

- Quiz
    1) Which Python keyword instructs the interpreter to do nothing? pass
    2) The Python _____ statement doesn’t perform any comparison. else
    3) Fill in the blanks: The Python bool object can exist in one of two states: _____ or _____. True, False
    4) The concept of having two states where only one can be active is modeled using Python’s _____ object. bool
    5) When Python reads an if statement, it expects whatever is between the word "if" and the colon to be considered _____. True
    6) Which of the following options correctly describes the syntax for an else-if statement in Python? elif, condition, colon, newline
    7) How does Python denote different blocks of code? whitespace-based indentation