# Exploring For Loops

- Repeat block of code for some limited amount of time or a finite list.

- Loop through letters and print all in the list.
```
letters = ['a', 'b', 'c']

for letter in letters:
    print(letter)
```

- Loop through letters to stop or Break at 'b'.
```
letters = ['a', 'b', 'c']

for letter in letters:
    if letter == 'b':
        break
    print(letter)
```

- Loop through letters to print 'a' and 'c'.
```
letters = ['a', 'b', 'c']

for letter in letters:
    if letter == 'b':
        continue
    print(letter)
```

- Repeat a For Loop for some number of times by using Range.
```
for number in range(10):
    print(number)
```

- Move through a list and know which index we are on in the list. It uses a built-in function called enumerate().
```
letters = ['a', 'b', 'c']
for i, value in enumerate(letters):
    print(f'The loop index is: {i} and the value is: {value}')
```

- Python language syntax allows for Tuple Unpacking. Tuple Unpacking enables us to bind multiple names to corresponding objects inside of a Tuple.

- Takeaways:
    1) The purpose of a For Loop is to repeat a code block for some limited amount of time.
    2) For Loops are defined with the For and If keywords where the first portion of the definition specifies the name bindings; the second portion specifies the collection.
    3) For Loops will naturally stop on their own when all objects have been looped through.
    4) For Loops can als be stopped using the Break keyword.
    5) The built-in Range function can be used to loop specific number of times.
    6) The built-in Enumerate function can be used to loop through a collection producing the value and the loop index (i).

- Quiz
    1) How is a for loop defined in Python? Using the 'for' and 'in' keywords
    2) What is the purpose of a for loop in Python? To repeat a block of code for some limited number of times.
    3) What keyword is used to stop a for loop in Python entirely? Break
    4)  What is the purpose of the 'range' function in Python? To repeat a 'for' loop a specific number of times.
    5) What is the purpose of the 'enumerate' function in Python? To loop through a collection, producing the value and the loop index