# Introduction to Python Collections

- Strings model sequence of characters.
- Integers model sequence of numbers.
- Floats model sequence of decimal numbers.
- Booleans model sequence of True/False values.

- Collections are object types which are used as containers for storing other objects.
- Collections model sequence of objects. Collections are used to store multiple items in a single variable.
- Collections include: List, Tuple, Set, Dictionary.

- List: 
    - Can store other objects. 
    - Have objects added, removed, sorted, reversed, and searched. 
    - Commonly used to store related objects. 
    - Ordered, mutable, allows duplicate elements.

- Tuple: 
    - A limited type of list.
    - Intended to store a fixed number of related objects where the number of objects is stored and known to the developer when they are writing the code.
    - When using the list, sometimes you will know the number of objects though often you won't know because the list will contain objects which are pulled from something like a DB or file. 
    - Ordered, immutable, allows duplicate elements.

- Set: 
    - Conceptually similar to a List, except it cannot contain duplicate objects. 
    - Set objects will automatically remove duplicated objects. 
    - Helpful for use cases with distinct objects. Can't store list inside of a set. 
    - Not all objects can be stored in a set. 
    - Contain only unique objects, have objects add and removed, be searched, and be compared to other sets. 
    - Using a set to remove duplicate objects from a List is a common use case.
    - Another common use case is to compare sets.
    - Can use sets to determine if a set resides in one, both, or neither set.
    - Unordered, mutable, no duplicate elements.

- Dictionary: 
    - Used to store objects which can be retrieved with a key.
    - Collection of key-value pairs where the keys and values are both objects that share some relation.
    - Have objects added which are bound to keys, have objects removed, be searched, and be merged with other dictionaries.
    - Relation between key and value has meaning.
    - Unordered, mutable, no duplicate elements, stores data in key-value pairs.

## Takeaways:
1. Collections are used as containers to store multiple items in a single variable.
2. Each type of collection serves a specific use case.
3. Four common built-in collections are list, tuple, set, and dictionary.

### Quiz:
1. Which Python collection type can you add objects to, remove objects from, sort, reverse, and search? list

2. Which Python object type models the notion of "true or false"? Boolean